# Edge-based-asthma-risk-prediction-
Air pollution is a problematic risk factor for death worldwide and is particularly important  in several respiratory diseases. Additionally, it causes about 8 million deaths annually, with 4.2 million of those deaths occurring globally due to outdoor exposure and 3.8 million due  to interior pollution. Pollutants cause a variety of respiratory problems. The number of  asthma outcomes including incidence, prevalence, hospital admissions, visits to emergency  rooms, mortality, and asthma episodes, among others, are also clearly impacted. Admission to the hospital is risky for elderly patients and those with multiple comorbidities including  hypertension and diabetes, especially in the current covid situations. An internal monitoring  strategy for predicting asthma is necessary to get around this. Therefore, a deep learningbased edge aided framework for asthma risk prediction (EARPM) is presented to accomplish  the objective. Using a convolution neural network and the amount of particulate matter(pm)  presenting in their living environment and the weather outside, E-ARP calculates the  vulnerability level of peak exploratory flow rate. Additionally, the projected PEFR levels are  divided into 3 classes based on best peak flow value that each participant was able to obtain: “Green” , “Yellow” and “Red” based on the level of risk. Countermeasures like turning on  sir purifiers should be taken if the current conditions are conductive to raising the risk of  asthma.PM sensors are used in the hardware implementation of the E-RMP prototype to find  the particulate matter. Additionally, Raspberry Pi serves as an edge node that forecasts the  degree of risk and triggers the reaction system(purifiers) in response. 
KEYWORDS-edge computing, machine learning, iot, Asthma prediction, particulate matter  (PM), peak expiratory flow rates (PEFR), convolutional neural network, Raspberry pi. 
